Exercises

1. Using proper pseudo-code, describe the following primitive algorithms:

~Making coffee~
check if we have beans
  IF we have coffee beans then 
    take them then
    Grind coffee beans till texture is fine
  END IF
Add ground coffee beans to filter
Insert filter into top of coffee maker
Add water till full
SET minutes to 0
FOR minutes 0 to 10
  IF coffeePot IS NOT full
    Wait another minute
  ELSE
    Pour cup of coffee
    Exit loop
  END IF
END FOR


~Washing dishes~
Open dishwasher
  IF dishwasher is empty THEN
    Put all medium-small dishes on the top rack
    Put all large dishes on the bottom rack
    Put all utensils in basket
  ELSE 
    RETURN "Dishwasher is full
  END IF 
Add soap then
  CALL start the dishwasher.

A choice of your own.
~Watering a plant~
Feel soil
  IF soil is wet 
    Do not addWater
  ELSE soil is dry Then
    addWater Then
  END IF
CALL addWater
  IF water comes out of soil THEN
    Stop watering.
  END IF



2. As with the knot algorithm, there may be more than one way to solve the problem. It is essential to try to pick the best algorithm for a situation. Name three companies who created an algorithm that made them successful, e.g., Google's search algorithm. It doesn't need to be a tech example (such as a recipe or manufacturing a product). Google's algorithm produces more relevant results than other search engines; what about each of your cases make them stand out?

Netflix: Out competes because their algorithm allows customers to be shown the most recommended titles to films and shows they watch.

Hotel Tonight: Their algorithm to select the cheapest and closest hotel for the night based on star rating for the hotels.

Air BnB: Their algorithm allows users to find a reasonably priced place anywhere in the world and it allows hosts to find guests from all over to stay.

3. Hypothesize about what constitutes an efficient algorithm versus an inefficient algorithm.

I think an efficient algorithm is not only one that solves the problem, but solves it in the most desirable method. There are lots of online stores, but Amazon's ease and selection that makes it the top of its game. What makes one efficient is not only whether it solves the problem, but how simply and effectively it solves the problem.

